From the AHD guide (hardware compatibility stuff is in gray, a few items
changed):\
## General settings

-   [`--level 4.1` for DXVA.]{style="color: gray"}

-   `--b-adapt 2` uses the best algorithm (that x264 has) to decide how
    B frames are placed.

-   `--min-keyint` should typically be the frame rate of your video,
    e.g. if you were encoding 23.976 fps content, then you use 24. This
    is setting the minimum distance between I-frames.

-   [`--vbv-bufsize 78125 --vbv-maxrate 62500` for DXVA (The old guide
    used lower values to account for the possibility of writing the
    encode to BD for playback, this is no longer a consideration as
    other settings break this compatibility. The new values are the max
    level 4.1 can do, if your device breaks because of this the encode
    is not at fault, your device doesn't meet DXVA
    spec).]{style="color: gray"}

-   `--rc-lookahead 250` if using mbtree, 60 or higher else. This sets
    how many frames ahead x264 can look, which is critical for mbtree.
    You need lots of memory for this. (Personally I just leave this at
    250 now as the impact on memory usage is 2 GB or so.) Definitely
    lower this if you're encoding without mbtree and have a lot of
    ReplaceFramesSimple calls in your script.

-   `--me umh` is the lowest you should go. If your CPU is fast enough,
    you might endure the slowdown from tesa. esa takes as much time as
    tesa without any benefit, so if you want to slow down your encode to
    try and catch more movement vectors, just use tesa, although the
    increase is not necessarily always worth it. This isn't really a
    setting you need to test, but on tough sources, you might squeeze
    some more performance out of x264 if you use tesa.

-   `--direct auto` will automatically choose the prediction mode
    (spatial/temporal)

-   `--subme 10` or `11` (personally I just set this to 11 the
    difference in encode speed is within 3-4%)

-   `--trellis 2`

-   `--no-dct-decimate` dct-decimate is a speed up that sacrifices
    quality. Just leave it off, since your computers can likely handle
    it.

-   `--no-fast-pskip` Similar to the above.

-   `--preset veryslow` or `placebo`, although the stuff we're changing
    will make veryslow be placebo, anyway.

## Source-specific settings

-   `--bitrate` / `--crf` Bitrate is in Kbps (Kilobits per second) and
    CRF takes a float, where lower is better quality. This is the most
    important setting you have; bitstarve an encode and it is guaranteed
    to look like crap. Use too many bits and you've got bloat (and if
    people wanted to download massive files, they would get a remux). Of
    course, the bitrate need can vary drastically depending on the
    source.

-   `--deblock -3:-3` to `1:1`. For live action, most people just stick
    with -3:-3. For anime, values between -3:-2 and 0:0 are common, with
    offsets of 1 between the two values being the norm (common values
    are -1:0, 0:-1, and -2:-1).

-   `--qcomp 0.6` (default) to `0.8` might prove useful. Don't set this
    too high or too low, or the overall quality of your encode will
    suffer. This setting has a heavy effect on mbtree. A higher qcomp
    value will make mbtree weaker, hence something around 0.80 is
    usually optimal for anime. `--qcomp 0` will cause a constant
    bitrate, while `--qcomp 1` will cause a constant quantizer.

-   `--aq-mode 1` to `3`: 1 distributes bits on a per frame basis, 2
    tends to allocate more bits to the foreground and can distribute
    bits in a small range of frames, 3 is a modified version of 2 that
    attempts to allocate more bits to dark parts of the frames. The only
    way to know what's best for sure it to test. Almost every source
    ends up looking best with aq-mode 3, however.

-   `--aq-strength 0.5` to `1.3` are worth trying. Higher values might
    help with blocking. Lower values will tend to allocate more bits to
    the foreground, similar to aq-mode 2. Lower values allocate more
    bits to flat areas, while higher values allocate more to
    \"detailed\" areas. Note that x264 considers grain and noise as
    detail, so you can think of this setting as the ratio of bits
    allocated to edges vs. bits allocated to grain. You're usually going
    to want to have a higher qcomp for a lower aq-strength and vice
    versa. With mode 3, you're usually going to end up somewhere around
    the 0.7-0.8 range for modern film, for which a qcomp of 0.6-0.7
    often works best.

-   `--merange 24` (the lowest that should ever be used) to `64`,
    setting this too high can hurt (more than 128), 32 or 48 will be
    fine for most encodes. In general, 32-48 for 1080p and 32 for 720p
    (when using umh) for movies with lots of motion this can help (e.g.
    action movies). Talking heads can get away with low values like 24.
    The impact on encode speed is noticeable but not horrible. I prefer
    to use 48 for 1080p and 32 for 720p when using umh or 32 for 1080p
    and 32 for 720p when using tesa.

-   `--no-mbtree` I highly recommend testing with both mbtree enabled
    and disabled, as generally it will result in two very different
    encodes. mbtree basically attempts to degrade the quality of blocks
    rather than frames, so that only the unimportant parts of a frame
    get less bits. To do this, it needs to know how often a block is
    referenced later, which is why `--rc-lookahead` should be set
    to 250. Useful for things with static backgrounds, like anime. Or
    for things where you've used a high qcomp (.75 or above) and mbtree
    will have a lowered impact. When testing whether this is a decent
    option, you'll likely have to retest every setting, especially
    qcomp, psy-rd, and ipratio.

-   `--ipratio 1.15` to `1.40`, with 1.30 usually being the go-to
    option. This is the bitrate allocation ratio between I and P frames.

-   `--pbratio 1.05` to `1.30`, with 1.20 being the usual go-to. This is
    the bitrate allocation ratio between P and B frames. This value
    should always be around 0.10 lower than \--ipratio, so lower it
    while testing ipratio. If you're using mbtree, this setting will
    have no affect, as mbtree determines it itself.

-   `--psy-rd 0.40:0 to 1.15:0`: 0.95:0 to 1.15:0 for live action. The
    first number is psy-rd strength, second is psy-trellis strength.
    This tries to keep x264 from making things blurry and instead keep
    the complexity. For anime, between 0.40 and 1.00:0.00 is the usual
    range. Psy-trellis usually introduces a lot of ringing, but can help
    with maintaining dither. You can try values between 0.00 and 0.15
    for live action and try values up to 0.50 for anime, although you'll
    usually get better results if you raise your aq-strength instead.

-   `--bframes 6` to `16`, This is setting the maximum amount of
    consecutive P frames that can be replaced with B frames. Test with
    16 for your first test run, and set according to the x264 log:

    `x264 [info]: consecutive B-frames: 1.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 14.9% 23.8% 13.9% 15.8% 8.9% 9.9% 0.0% 11.9% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0%`

    Start counting with the first percentage as 0 and choose the highest
    number with more than 1%, which is 11 in this example. (Or just
    leave this at 16 as allowing more bframes will not harm your encode
    and will aid in compression, the impact on speed isn't that
    enormous.)

-   \--ref set the number of previous frames each P frame can use as
    references. If you don't care about hardware compatibility (and/or
    are doing a 10-bit encode), set this to 16. The impact on
    performance is quite large, but it's worth it most of the time.
    [Calculate the number you can use or if you're using the provided
    CLI inputs at the end of this it will be calculated for you by x264.
    Always use the max that you can.\
    The max `--ref` value can be calculated as follows:\
    For `--level 4.1`, according to the H.264 standard, the max DPB
    (Decoded Picture Buffer) size is 12,288 kilobytes.\
    Since each frame is stored in YV12 format, or 1.5 bytes per pixel, a
    1920x1088 frame is
    $1920 \times 1088 \times 1.5 = 3133440\,\mathrm{bytes} = 3060$ kilobytes.\
    $12,288 \div 3060\,\mathrm{kilobytes} = 4.01568627$, so you can use
    a maximum of 4 reference frames.\
    Remember, round both dimensions up to a mod16 value when doing the
    math, even if you're not encoding mod16!\
    Let's do the math for 1920x800.\
    $1920 \times 800 \times 1.5 = 2304000\,\mathrm{bytes} = 2250$ kilobytes.
    $12,288 \div 2250\,\mathrm{kilobytes} = 5.45777778$, so you can use
    a maximum of 5 reference frames Note that these conversions use base
    2, so 1 Kilobyte == 1024 bytes. If you get the math wrong, that's
    okay too - x264 will display a warning if you use too many, so
    you'll know if you need to change it.]{style="color: gray"}

-   `--zones` is quite useful for debanding and blocking, as these areas
    require a larger bitrate to maintain transparency. The syntax is\
    `--zones 0,100,crf=10/101,200,crf=15` or\
    `--zones 0,100,b=5/101,200,b=10` with `b` being a bitrate multiplier
    in this case. You can also use this for areas that don't get enough
    bits allocated. Especially common areas are darker scenes or scenes
    with lots of reds. Fades can also suffer from bitstarving and
    require zoning. One can also lower the bitrate during credits to
    save that little something.

-   `--output-depth 8` or `10` depending on what you're encoding in.

-   `--output-csp i444` if you're encoding 4:4:4, else leave this out.
