The documentation here is very good, so I'll just go over recommended
values:\
**Source-independent settings:**

-   `--preset veryslow` or `slower`

-   `--no-rect` for slower computers. There's a slight chance it'll
    prove useful, but it probably isn't worth it.

-   `--no-amp` is similar to `rect`, although it seems to be slightly
    more useful.

-   `--no-open-gop`

-   `--no-cutree` since this seems to be a poor implementation of
    `mbtree`.

-   `--no-rskip` `rskip` is a speed up that gives up some quality, so
    it's worth considering with bad CPUs.

-   `--no-sao` because `sao` is one of the stupidest things in x265.

-   `--ctu 64`

-   `--min-cu-size 8`

-   `--rdoq-level 2`

-   `--max-merge 5`

-   `--rc-lookahead 60` although it's irrelevant as long as it's larger
    than min-keyint

-   `--ref 6` for good CPUs, something like `4` for worse ones.

-   `--bframes 16` or whatever your final bframes log output says.

-   `--rd 3` or `4` (they're currently the same).  If you can endure the slowdown, you can use `6`, too, which allows you to test `--rd-refine`.

-   `--subme 5`. You can also change this to `7`, but this is known to
    sharpen.

-   `--merange 57` just don't go below `32` and you should be fine.

-   `--high-tier`

-   `--range limited`

-   `--aud`

-   `--repeat-headers`

**Source-dependent settings:**

-   `--colorprim 9` for HDR, `1` for SDR.

-   `--colormatrix 9` for HDR, `1` for SDR.

-   `--transfer 16` for HDR, `1` for SDR.

-   `--hdr10` for HDR.

-   `--hdr10-opt` for 4:2:0 HDR, `--no-hdr10-opt` for 4:4:4 HDR and SDR.

-   `--dhdr10-info /path/to/metadata.json` for HDR10+ content with metadata extracted using [hdr10plus_parser](https://github.com/quietvoid/hdr10plus_parser).

-   `--dhdr10-opt` for HDR10+.

-   `--master-display "G(8500,39850)B(6550,2300)R(35400,14600)WP(15635,16450)L(10000000,20)"`
    for BT.2020 or\
    `G(13250,34500)B(7500,3000)R(34000,16000)WP(15635,16450)L(10000000,1)`
    for Display P3 mastering display color primaries with the values for
    L coming from your source's MediaInfo for mastering display
    luminance.
    
    For example, if your source MediaInfo reads:
    ```
    Mastering display color primaries : BT.2020
    Mastering display luminance : min: 0.0000 cd/m2, max: 1000 cd/m2
    Maximum Content Light Level : 711 cd/m2
    Maximum Frame-Average Light Level : 617 cd/m2
    ```
    This means you set `"G(8500,39850)B(6550,2300)R(35400,14600)WP(15635,16450)L(10000000,0)"`

-   `--max-cll "711,617"` from your source's MediaInfo for maximum
    content light level and maximum frame-average light level.
    The values here are from the above example.

-   `--cbqpoffs` and `--crqpoffs` should usually be between -3 and 0 for 4:2:0.
    For 4:4:4, set this to something between 3 and 6.
    This sets an offset between the bitrate applied to the luma and the
    chroma planes.

-   `--qcomp` between `0.60` and `0.80`.

-   `--aq-mode 4`, `3`, `2`, `1`, or `--hevc-aq` with `4` and `3`
    usually being the two best options. These do the following

    1.  Standard adaptive quantization, simply add more bits to complex
        blocks.

    2.  Adaptive quantization with auto-variance.

    3.  Adaptive quantization with auto-variance and bias to dark scene.

    4.  Adaptive quantization with auto-variance and better edge
        preservation.

    5.  `hevc-aq` "scales the quantization step size according to the
        spatial activity of one coding unit relative to frame average
        spatial activity. This AQ method utilizes the minimum variance
        of sub-unit in each coding unit to represent the coding unit's
        spatial complexity." Like most of the x265 documentation, this
        sounds a lot fancier than it is. Don't enable with other modes
        turned on.

-   `--aq-strength` between `0.80` and `1.50`.

-   `--deblock -4:-4` to `0:0`, as with x264. You can default `-3:-3`
    with live action.

-   `--ipratio` and `--pbratio` same as x264 again.

-   `--psy-rd 0.50` to `2.00`, similar-ish to x264.

-   `--psy-rdoq` anything from `0.00` to `2.00` usually.

-   `--no-strong-intra-smoothing` on sharp/grainy content, you can leave
    this on for blurry content, as it's an additional blur that'll help
    prevent banding.

-   `--output-depth 10` for 10-bit output.

-   `--input-depth 10` for 10-bit input.
